README.md, before:

# Future Take-Home Interview

```zsh
Candidate: Rachel Sheikh
Email: sheikhrachel97@gmail.com
Date: 28.10.2022
```

## Quickstart

This project is a web server build with `go 1.19`, serving traffic with [gin](https://github.com/gin-gonic/gin)

### Using the bundled server executable

Don't feel like installing Go / dealing with dependencies?  Use the bundled in build!

From the root:
```zsh
./server
```

### Using `go run main.go`

_missing go 1.19?  Head on over to [go downloads](https://go.dev/dl/) and follow the steps to set it up!_

```zsh
go version
```
should output

`go version go1.19.1 darwin/arm64`


Now let's download our dependencies
```zsh
go mod get
```

And finally, let's start our server
```zsh
go run main.go
```

This will start the server at `http://localhost:8080`.  

_Note: Make sure this socket isn't in use when the run command is triggered, or the server won't start!_
## Overview

### Available Endpoints

#### Post a new appointment (as JSON) - single
POST `/appointments/new`

Creates a single new appointment with a valid request body

Request
```json
{
  "id": "int unique appointment id",
  "trainer_id": "int trainer id",
  "user_id": "int user id",
  "starts_at": "string datetime RFC 3999",
  "ends_at": "string datetime RFC 3999"
}
```

ex.
```json
{
  "ended_at": "2019-01-24T10:30:00-08:00",
  "id": 2,
  "user_id": 2,
  "started_at": "2019-01-24T10:00:00-08:00",
  "trainer_id": 1
}
```

Response
```json
{
  "appointment_added": {
    "id": 2,
    "trainer_id": 1,
    "user_id": 2,
    "started_at": "2019-01-24T10:00:00-08:00",
    "ended_at": "2019-01-24T10:30:00-08:00"
  }
}
```

#### Post a new appointment (as JSON) - batch
POST `/appointments/new/batch`

Creates multiple new appointments with a valid request body.

Request
```json
[
  {
    "id": "int unique appointment id",
    "trainer_id": "int trainer id",
    "user_id": "int user id",
    "starts_at": "string datetime RFC 3999",
    "ends_at": "string datetime RFC 3999"
  }
]
```

ex.
```json
[
  {
    "id": 2,
    "trainer_id": 1,
    "user_id": 2,
    "started_at": "2019-01-24T10:00:00-08:00",
    "ended_at": "2019-01-24T10:30:00-08:00"
  },
  {
    "id": 3,
    "trainer_id": 1,
    "user_id": 3,
    "started_at": "2019-01-25T10:00:00-08:00",
    "ended_at": "2019-01-25T10:30:00-08:00"
  }
]
```

Response
```json
{
  "appointments_added": [
    {
      "id": 2,
      "trainer_id": 1,
      "user_id": 2,
      "started_at": "2019-01-24T10:00:00-08:00",
      "ended_at": "2019-01-24T10:30:00-08:00"
    },
    {
      "id": 3,
      "trainer_id": 1,
      "user_id": 3,
      "started_at": "2019-01-25T10:00:00-08:00",
      "ended_at": "2019-01-25T10:30:00-08:00"
    }
  ]
}
```

####  Get a list of available appointment times for a trainer between two dates
GET `/appointments/availability`

Returns availability for a trainer within the request window

Request
```json
{
  "ends_at": "string datetime RFC 3999",
  "starts_at": "string datetime RFC 3999",
  "trainer_id": "int trainer id"
}
```

ex.
```json
{
  "ends_at": "2019-01-24T12:00:00-08:00",
  "starts_at": "2019-01-24T10:00:00-08:00",
  "trainer_id": 1
}
```

Response
```json
{
  "trainer_id":1,
  "upcoming_availability":[
    "2019-01-24T09:30:00-08:00",
    "2019-01-24T10:00:00-08:00",
    "2019-01-24T10:30:00-08:00",
    "2019-01-24T11:00:00-08:00",
    "2019-01-24T11:30:00-08:00",
    "2019-01-24T12:00:00-08:00",
    "2019-01-24T12:30:00-08:00"
  ]
}
```

####  Get a list of booked appointments
GET `/appointments/booked/:trainer_id`

Returns booked appointments for a trainer

Request
```json
{
  "trainer_id": "int trainer id"
}
```

ex.
```json
{
  "trainer_id": 1
}
```

Response
```json
{
  "booked": [
    {
      "id":0,
      "trainer_id":1,
      "user_id":1,
      "started_at":"2019-01-24 10:00:00 -0800 PST",
      "ended_at":"2019-01-24 10:30:00 -0800 PST"
      },
      {
      "id":1,
      "trainer_id":1,
      "user_id":2,
      "started_at":"2019-01-24 11:00:00 -0800 PST",
      "ended_at":"2019-01-24 11:30:00 -0800 PST"
      }
  ],
  "trainer_id": 1
}
```

## Assumptions

- Server handles M-F 8a-5p Pacific validation
- Server handles :30 and :00 start time validation
- Appointment IDs are generated by the client, and the server will only store new unique appointment ids
- All appointments are 30 minutes long, so client will always send an end time that fits this duration from the provided start

## Infra set up

- Papertrail integration for loud logs
- RDS Postgres instance for data storage

## Next Steps (shortlist)

- Update `/appointments/availability/:trainer_id` and `/appointments/booked/:trainer_id` to be paginated
- Integrate Redis as a write-through cache to better handle concurrent appointment reads/writes
- Integrate Cloudwatch to fetch production metrics and dashboard endpoint health/latency/rps
- Setup CodePipeline and deploy to EC2 instance
- Add feature flag/dynvar tooling
- Update rate limit config based on usage
- Migrate `appointment_service` to a separate microservice that receives grpc forwarded requests from respective endpoints
- Add mock interface generation via counterfeiter
- Integrate `gin-swagger` for more thorough api documentation
- Perform further load testing (vegeta/siege/custom script) to calculate upper limit on concurrent requests
- Add commit pre-hooks (rapid endpoint validation/linting/testing)
- Add one-off/scheduled cron job tooling
- Integrate secrets manager for config secrets
- Identify areas for async computation with goroutines
- Increase unit test coverage to enable simultaneous development and regression coverage
- Integrate Slack alerts for ci/cd and server panics
- Integrate Pagerduty for critical non-recoverable panics
- Update `AddNewAppointment` to handle conflicting appointments for the same user or the same trainer at a given start time
- Increase test coverage beyond integration tests to cover methods

Commit message:

updated bookings documentation and added deployment

README.md, after:

# Future Take-Home Interview

```zsh
Candidate: Rachel Sheikh
Email: sheikhrachel97@gmail.com
Date: 28.10.2022
```

## Quickstart

This project is a web server build with `go 1.19`, serving traffic with [gin](https://github.com/gin-gonic/gin)

### Using the live server

_Don't feel like cloning the repo? Use the deployed server to try out requests!  Endpoints below_

```zsh
https://rsheikh-future.herokuapp.com/appointments/bookings/1
```

should return trainer 1's booked appointments!

### Using the bundled server executable

_Don't feel like installing Go / dealing with dependencies?  Use the bundled in build!_

From the root:
```zsh
./server
```

### Using `go run main.go`

_missing go 1.19?  Head on over to [go downloads](https://go.dev/dl/) and follow the steps to set it up!_

```zsh
go version
```
should output something like

`go version go1.19.1 darwin/arm64`


Now let's download our dependencies
```zsh
go mod get
```

And finally, let's start our server
```zsh
go run main.go
```

This will start the server at `http://localhost:8080`.  

_Note: Make sure this socket isn't in use when the run command is triggered, or the server won't start!_
## Overview

### Available Endpoints

#### Post a new appointment (as JSON) - single
POST `/appointments/new`

Creates a single new appointment with a valid request body

Request
```json
{
  "id": "int unique appointment id",
  "trainer_id": "int trainer id",
  "user_id": "int user id",
  "starts_at": "string datetime RFC 3999",
  "ends_at": "string datetime RFC 3999"
}
```

ex.
```json
{
  "ended_at": "2019-01-24T10:30:00-08:00",
  "id": 2,
  "user_id": 2,
  "started_at": "2019-01-24T10:00:00-08:00",
  "trainer_id": 1
}
```

Response
```json
{
  "appointment_added": {
    "id": 2,
    "trainer_id": 1,
    "user_id": 2,
    "started_at": "2019-01-24T10:00:00-08:00",
    "ended_at": "2019-01-24T10:30:00-08:00"
  }
}
```

#### Post a new appointment (as JSON) - batch
POST `/appointments/new/batch`

Creates multiple new appointments with a valid request body.

Request
```json
[
  {
    "id": "int unique appointment id",
    "trainer_id": "int trainer id",
    "user_id": "int user id",
    "starts_at": "string datetime RFC 3999",
    "ends_at": "string datetime RFC 3999"
  }
]
```

ex.
```json
[
  {
    "id": 2,
    "trainer_id": 1,
    "user_id": 2,
    "started_at": "2019-01-24T10:00:00-08:00",
    "ended_at": "2019-01-24T10:30:00-08:00"
  },
  {
    "id": 3,
    "trainer_id": 1,
    "user_id": 3,
    "started_at": "2019-01-25T10:00:00-08:00",
    "ended_at": "2019-01-25T10:30:00-08:00"
  }
]
```

Response
```json
{
  "appointments_added": [
    {
      "id": 2,
      "trainer_id": 1,
      "user_id": 2,
      "started_at": "2019-01-24T10:00:00-08:00",
      "ended_at": "2019-01-24T10:30:00-08:00"
    },
    {
      "id": 3,
      "trainer_id": 1,
      "user_id": 3,
      "started_at": "2019-01-25T10:00:00-08:00",
      "ended_at": "2019-01-25T10:30:00-08:00"
    }
  ]
}
```

####  Get a list of available appointment times for a trainer between two dates
GET `/appointments/availability`

Returns availability for a trainer within the request window

Request
```json
{
  "ends_at": "string datetime RFC 3999",
  "starts_at": "string datetime RFC 3999",
  "trainer_id": "int trainer id"
}
```

ex.
```json
{
  "ends_at": "2019-01-24T12:00:00-08:00",
  "starts_at": "2019-01-24T10:00:00-08:00",
  "trainer_id": 1
}
```

Response
```json
{
  "trainer_id":1,
  "upcoming_availability":[
    "2019-01-24T09:30:00-08:00",
    "2019-01-24T10:00:00-08:00",
    "2019-01-24T10:30:00-08:00",
    "2019-01-24T11:00:00-08:00",
    "2019-01-24T11:30:00-08:00",
    "2019-01-24T12:00:00-08:00",
    "2019-01-24T12:30:00-08:00"
  ]
}
```

####  Get a list of booked appointments
GET `/appointments/bookings/:trainer_id`

Returns booked appointments for a trainer

No request body, param passed in with the path

Response
```json
{
  "bookings": [
    {
      "id":0,
      "trainer_id":1,
      "user_id":1,
      "started_at":"2019-01-24 10:00:00 -0800 PST",
      "ended_at":"2019-01-24 10:30:00 -0800 PST"
      },
      {
      "id":1,
      "trainer_id":1,
      "user_id":2,
      "started_at":"2019-01-24 11:00:00 -0800 PST",
      "ended_at":"2019-01-24 11:30:00 -0800 PST"
      }
  ],
  "trainer_id": 1
}
```

## Assumptions

- Server handles M-F 8a-5p Pacific validation
- Server handles :30 and :00 start time validation
- Appointment IDs are generated by the client, and the server will only store new unique appointment ids
- All appointments are 30 minutes long, so client will always send an end time that fits this duration from the provided start

## Infra set up

- Papertrail integration for loud logs
- RDS Postgres instance for data storage

## Next Steps (shortlist)

- Update `/appointments/availability/:trainer_id` and `/appointments/booked/:trainer_id` to be paginated
- Integrate Redis as a write-through cache to better handle concurrent appointment reads/writes
- Integrate Cloudwatch to fetch production metrics and dashboard endpoint health/latency/rps
- Setup CodePipeline and deploy to EC2 instance
- Add feature flag/dynvar tooling
- Update rate limit config based on usage
- Migrate `appointment_service` to a separate microservice that receives grpc forwarded requests from respective endpoints
- Add mock interface generation via counterfeiter
- Integrate `gin-swagger` for more thorough api documentation
- Perform further load testing (vegeta/siege/custom script) to calculate upper limit on concurrent requests
- Add commit pre-hooks (rapid endpoint validation/linting/testing)
- Add one-off/scheduled cron job tooling
- Integrate secrets manager for config secrets
- Identify areas for async computation with goroutines
- Increase unit test coverage to enable simultaneous development and regression coverage
- Integrate Slack alerts for ci/cd and server panics
- Integrate Pagerduty for critical non-recoverable panics
- Update `AddNewAppointment` to handle conflicting appointments for the same user or the same trainer at a given start time
- Increase test coverage beyond integration tests to cover methods
